well we open with breaking news from
Gaza City at least 70 Palestinians have
been killed in a coldblooded massacre of
Palestinian civilians by Israeli troops
we understand more than 250 people were
also injured many of them are in
critical condition hundreds of hungry
and starving Palestinians had come to
collect food Aid when they were attacked
by Israeli snipers and shelled by
Israeli tanks civilians were left
scrambling to then transport them to
nearby host hital most of them are out
of
service we have come here to get our
hands on some Aid I've been waiting here
since noon yesterday at about 4:30 in
the early morning trucks started to
trickle in the Israelis just opened
random Fire on us as if it was a trap
once we approached the a trucks the
Israeli tanks and warplanes started
firing on us if this continues like this
we do not want any Aid delivered at all
every Convoy coming means another
Massacre some of the injured we
understand were taken to alifa hospital
in Gaza City here's an account from one
of the doctors there jadala
ala there are really no words to
describe the situation it reminds us of
the dark scenes from the Baptist
Hospital 4 months ago where 500 people
were killed in one Israeli airstrike
since the early hours of the morning the
hospital has been flooded with dozens of
dead bodies and hundreds of injured the
majority of the victims suffered gunshot
wounds and shrapnel in the head and
upper parts of their bodies they were
hit by direct artillery shelling drone
missiles and gunfire all our operation
rooms are full and all medical staff
have been deployed above all we ran out
of medical supplies and fuel necessary
to operate the hospital we hope we will
be able to provide any life-saving
procedures to those victims all victims
are in critical condition they're lying
on the floor We Stand helpless amid the
sharp shortage of supplies and stuff
well let's speak to our correspondent on
the ground hany Mahmud he joins me on
the phone from Rafa in southern Gaza Hy
what exactly do we know about what
happened in Gaza
City yes what we we followed this tragic
story since midnight from one of the
journalists on the ground who documented
that people were arriving to an
round the part better Rashid Road where
people gathered in larger groups waiting
for uh a trucks to arrive uh to G City
and the northern partk mainly people
have been grappling with famine and Fai
with with starvation difficult living
conditions within the past few weeks
and trucks made it to the northern part
people resorted to eating animal Fe and
wild flag just to stay alive so as these
people were
Gathering just waiting for that heavy
fire were opened at them and they were
shot at by all kinds of of of military
equipment available at that point from
the naval forces ra Naval forces from uh
from tanks and from Attack drones that
were hovering as were described by one
of the journalists on the ground as
hovering as a very low level above
people and also from armored vehicles
that were within the inity of the area
so far we're looking at a very tragic
scene people who are
not we're waiting
for
food0 people so reported those have
already the way Hospital transferred on
CS pulled by donkeys or by cars or by
the the the very truck that carried the
aid turned into an ambulance right now
it's car it carried a bodies of injuries
as well as those who have been killed
and they transfer them to a shifa
hospital according to an eyewitness
right now on the road the cter road
there are more bodies that haven't been
collected haven't identified we are
expecting the number within
the are on the ground right on a Rashid
road with no help available whatsoever
given the fact that there are still
drones in the in the areas and there
also the the gun boats are firing at
people who are getting closer uh to AI
round terrible pictures that we're
seeing there hanim Mahmud with all the
latest for us from Rafa in southern Gaza
and just to warn you that the pictures
that we have been seeing um they've been
bloodred we appreciate that they may be
disturbing we understand and that's Al
rashed Street in Gaza City where a
massacre has taken place where people
were collecting food Aid well in the
meantime the Palestinian Ministry of
Foreign Affairs has condemned that
attack calling it a heinous Massacre it
says Israel Israeli forces killed in
Cold Blood dozens of Palestinians as
they waited for humanitarian Aid the
ministry has called on the International
Community to intervene urgently for a
ceas fire let's bring in Zan BVI he
joins me live now from rala in the
occupied West Bank zann very strong call
to action there from the
PA that is correct there is no end to
the extreme frustration that
Palestinians and Palestinian leaders
here in ramala have as they continue to
watch one horrifying incident after
another in Gaza strong condemnation once
again for what is happening there for
what has happened today uh we've seen
yet another unprovoked and deliberate
attack on once again targets who are
civilians let's stop for a moment and
really look at who it is that has been
the recipient of these Israeli attacks
of Israeli bullets these are people who
are facing famine conditions medical
standards being applied to the
population in Gaza do say that
starvation is happening many people
hundreds of thousands of people more
than half a million people living in
Gaza at risk of real starvation so these
people waiting in line for food
clamoring for a trucks we've seen a
gunfire opened on Palestinians living in
Gaza in the past uh people have been
injured people have been killed in and
around Rafa trying to get aid but
nothing at this scale nothing like this
initial estimates say 70 some estimates
say that that number as high as 150
killed hundreds more injured and the
images coming out of there that we're
seeing here are truly horrifying uh
corpses of men and women being piled up
on the back of lories that are meant to
carry shipping containers covering the
flatbed truck of these lores uh bloodied
Aid food Aid boxes injuries to people's
heads and torsos just bodies lining the
streets there are no ambulances people
are being moved on horses and Buggies uh
by horse and Buggies they're being moved
on backs so people are carrying people
injured people to the hospitals where
they can on their own backs so these are
truly devastating and dire and desperate
circumstances the PA foreign Ministry
saying that it condemns in the strongest
terms these heinous Massac
committed by the Israeli forces and is
once again calling on the International
Community to intervene and carry out
whatever it needs to do to implement a
ceasefire now one thing that we've he
heard from Palestinian leadership and
Palestinians living here in the occupied
West Bank over and over again is that
there is a double standard being applied
to this conflict they compare it to
Ukraine and when we look back at how we
covered Ukraine one incident comes to
mind there was an attack by Russian
forces on a breadline where nine people
died and that that made headlines for
days and weeks all over the world with
investigations into exactly what was
used and why and there was only a death
toll of about nine people if you apply
that standard to what has happened today
to what has been going on for almost
five months now then that should be
enough to bring a ceasefire into place
here but what Palestinians continue to
say is that this is not a war in Europe
that this is a war in Palestine and the
standards here are applied very
differently Zan BVI with the latest for
us there from rala in the occupied West
Bank thank you Zayn well let's now go to
vill Marks he joins me from occupied
East Jerusalem villm a has been so
tightly restricted by the Israeli that
we see these huge crowds gather to
collect whatever they can when Aid does
make it in what's the situation like now
in terms of trucks actually crossing the
border soia this has been obviously a
hugely contentious issue for for many
months almost since the start of this
conflict we've had huge pressure from
the International Community to try and
increase the flow of Aid into the Gaza
Strip particularly the last couple of
months there's been a huge push to try
and get more food Aid in particular up
to the Northern parts of the strip that
had been emptied somewhat during the
earlier stages of the war the un uh have
been talking about the fact that just in
the last few weeks there's been a
significant drop off in the amount of
Aid entering into Gaza overall the world
food program in particular for many
weeks now has been talking about the
risks to people in the North of Gaza who
do not have enough access to food and
the impact that could have both on their
short and long-term Health they say one
of the challenges inside Gaza is trying
to coordinate safely to get trucks into
areas that may be at the center of
fighting in terms of the process of
getting those tracks trucks into the
strip though there's a lot of checks
that go on inside Israeli territory
before they pass into the strip that
sometimes takes a huge amount of time
the Israelis even objectively are not
doing that full til tilt 7 days a week
24 hours a day that means there are
bottlenecks that build up not all of the
possible Crossings into Gaza are always
open as well so there are ways that more
raid could get in there there's clearly
a lot of it waiting to go in and some of
the consequences we're seeing in these
awful images well we we know that there
are these constraints and they're
ongoing we've also seen seemingly
systematic attacks on Aid infrastructure
in the
strip and that's the really difficult
thing to say without the details of any
specific incident we don't know whether
this is deliberate targeting by Israeli
forces on some of these sites clearly
today's incident absolutely horrific in
terms of the the number of casualties
the number of injuries but at this stage
Anastasia I think it's important to say
we don't know quite what happened in
this incident well we'll certainly be
trying to answer some of those questions
and bring you more on that as we get it
for now villm marks there from occupied
East Jerusalem thanks villm